# WPM
                             Understand(ing) Your Accent (UYA)
Your Key to Being Better Understood
What is UYA? Understand(ing) Your Accent is an accent reduction company providing cutting-edge technological feedback to ESL speakers with an emphasis on American pronunciation. It revolves around Stephen Covey’s principle of “Seek first to understand then to be understood.” The better one understands the specific aspects of their accent preventing them from being understood, the better one can make adjustments to be better understood.  The company is currently specialized in helping native speakers of languages from the Indo-Aryan and Dravidian language families found primarily in and around India.
Who is UYA? Understand(ing) Your Accent was founded by Scott Swenson in August of 2020. Scott’s fascination with accents was born over 30 years ago.  While he still a teen, he moved to an area where the residents primarily spoke Spanish.  He tried learning the language, but quickly found that native Spanish speakers couldn’t understand him. As hard as he tried, he couldn’t reduce his American accent to the point where he was easily understood. Sadly, this experience led Scott to move and abandon his Spanish language studies altogether. It also sparked within him an intense interest in accents and a desire to understand which parts of an accent prevent understanding by native language speakers. 
This interest in accents led Scott to earn a Bachelor’s of Science degree in Communication Disorders. He was fascinated by the science behind the production and interpretation of speech sounds as well as the incredible complexity of speaking and understanding languages.  Shortly after earning his degree, circumstances led Scott to move to Boston, MA to start working in a completely different field – Financial Services.  He entered the MBA program at Suffolk University’s Sawyer School of Business shortly after relocating to Boston and eventually earned his degree. Scott spent the next two-plus decades exploring the complexities of communication in his life, both personally and professionally.
Why UYA? Scott has always been self-conscious about how he sounded to others.  He grew up often being asked to repeat himself and to slow down when speaking.  As previously mentioned, he tried learning another Spanish but found Native Spanish speakers couldn’t understand what he was saying.  He found it frustrating that what he thought he was saying didn’t sound anything like what he REALLY sounded like. He wished he had a visual way to monitor his performance - A way to visually represent how close/far his sound was from the sound he was trying to make (the target sound.)  No such thing existed at that time.
 While in graduate school, Scott worked very closely with fellow students from all over the world. In doing so, he noticed different qualities of accents from different native languages.  He noticed some accent aspects seemed to add to charm, while other aspects prohibited the speaker from being understood. After being asked, Scott worked one on one with one of his fellow students to help her recognize the difference between the sounds she was trying to produce and the ones she was actually making. He did this by presenting recordings of the target sounds, and then recording his friend to let her hear the difference. He found that while his friend could hear the difference in the recordings, she had difficulty recognizing the difference while actually making the sounds. She appreciated his diligence and help, but didn’t realize any significant improvement. Scott again wished he had some sort of tool that provided visual feedback to speakers so they could see the difference between what they were trying to say, and what they were actually saying.  No such thing existed at the time.
Scott developed his passion to help others be better understood about 15 years ago.  His career in the financial services industry eventually led him to become a Corporate Trainer where he taught many professional development courses including those revolving around effective communication and customer service.  In this position, Scott worked closely with “offshore resources” primarily from India and the surrounding regions. He quickly realized how much he enjoyed working with these ‘resources’ and found them to be incredibly warm and kind people.  He eventually transitioned into IT and worked even more with people from India and the surrounding region.  He eventually went into IT contracting and noticed that while some Indian contractors were easier to understand than others, all were treated differently than those contracted resources who were native English Speakers. He realized that these incredibly warm and kind people were being treated more like things than human beings and that really bothered him. He wanted to help, but based on his graduate student experiences, he didn’t think he could. Again, he wished he had a way to offer real-live visual feedback to people as they spoke. By this time, things were different. The rise of machine learning and deep learning neural networks had revolutionized the area of speech recognition. Scott stopped looking for the solution and started creating it. The result is Understand(ing) Your Accent.
When UYA? Understand(ing) Your Accent v.1 is going live in September, 2020.  
Where UYA? Understand(ing) Your Accent is located in Boston, MA, but is accessed by customers around the world through https://UnderstandingYourAccent.com.
How UYA? Understand(ing) Your Accent v.1 consists of targeted online advertising designed to send interested people to the website for detailed language/accent information and live speech feedback while building a prospect list. The revenue model for UYA v.1 is affiliate marketing through the prospect list.
The information provided on the site focuses on the 3 keys areas to being better understood (with an ‘Indian’ Accent) by Americans:
1)Speak slower
2)Use more American specific sounds/stresses
3)Use more American intonation
The differentiating feature of Understand(ing) Your Accent is the live/visual feedback.  
The first online live feedback app will be a speech speed calculator. Users will speak into a microphone on their device for a short period of time to create a speech sample.  The sample is then fed through the app, and the user will (nearly) instantaneously receive the number of words per minute (wpm) they speak. This is significant for two reasons.  First, there are very few word-counting/speed calculating apps online.  Second, the users can conveniently practice speaking slower immediately after reading about the importance of slowing down.  This app will be part of the initial rollout of Understanding Your Accent v1.
The second online live feedback app will be a visual tracker of specific (usually problematic for Indian ESL speakers) speech sounds/word stresses.  It will allow the user to choose from a variety of speech sounds/word stresses.  The user will hear the sound from a Native English Speaker (with an American Accent), and ‘see’ what that sound looks like in a spectrograph.  The user will then make the same sound into their device’s microphone. The online app will break down their speech signal and show a visual of their sound overlaid on the target sound. This will allow the user to get instant feedback on that specific sound. This app will be rolled out after the initial rollout of Understand(ing) Your Accent v.1 and will represent v.1.2
The third online live feedback app will be a visual tracker of intonation.  The user will hear a phrase from a Native English Speaker (with an American Accent), and ‘see’ what the intonation looks like visually. The user will then speak the same phrase in their device’s microphone that will send their speech signal to the online app.  The app will then break down their speech signal and show a visual representation of their phrase intonation overlaid on the target phrase intonation. This will allow the user to get instant, specific feedback on their intonation. This app will be rolled out after the initial rollout of Understand(ing) Your Accent v.1.2 and will represent v.1.3 
After v.1.3 has been rolled out, development of session performance recording and performance history tracking will commence.  This will allow the user to monitor improvement over time. Once this functionality is available, it will signify a change in the Understand(ing) Your Accent revenue model. UYA will move to V.2 and become a membership site/service with 3 initial plans:
1.Free (use of 3 apps for a limited time each month)
2.Standard (unlimited use of 3 apps each month)
3.Premium (Standard + performance history)
Existing users (on the prospect list) will automatically be grandfathered into the Standard plan free of charge and will be offered a special price to upgrade to the Premium Plan within a certain time frame.

UYA’s long-term plan includes the following projects:
1.Expanding the accents recognized within the 3 UYA apps.
2.Franchising opportunities for licensed Speech Language Pathologists (SLPs).
a.Offer UYA products/branding to SLPs 
b.1:1 Accent Reduction: SLPs will pay a fee to UYA to get prospects looking for 1:1 services through the UYA platform.
3.Accent Rater: UYA will incorporate the 3 applications into a single application that detects/rates the severity/understandability of an accent. This product will be marketed to American Companies to rate the understandability of their Offshore Service Providers/Help Desks as well as Offshore Service Providers to help them develop their people to certain understandability levels.
4.Develop an online ‘American Accent Translation’ service.  Similar to the live translation services available for other languages, but will translate from heavily accented English to the most updated virtual-speech platform with American accent.


